Added known issue for Security Entity Analytics enrichment on alerts (#6305)
elastic/docs-content: release-notes/elastic-security/known-issues.md

% :::

:::{dropdown} Detection Rule run failures due to failed Entity Analytics enrichment
**Applies to: 9.4.0**

**Impact**<br>

After you upgrade to v9.4, any Detection Rules created by users without access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index (i.e., the entity store) do not enrich their alerts with entity analytics data. This means that alerts which contain user or host entities and were created from rules authored by users without access to the index show as failures. The alert document still generates, but without entity analytics data.

When a rule fires successfully and generates an alert, Asset Criticality and Entity Risk score values enrich the alert document. In 9.4, these values come from the entity store index `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` , which is a feature on by default in the default space.

> Detection Rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. When rules are created or modified, those permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Detection Rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. When rules are created or modified, those permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate and actions are still scheduled).
```

**Workaround**<br>

> Give appropriate index-level permissions for the entity store index `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` to a user, and have that user perform a no-op bulk update to all rules in the space. The rule will succeed on subsequent runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Give appropriate index-level permissions for the entity store index and alias in the appropriate space (`.entities.v2.latest.security_${spaceId}*` and `entities-latest-${spaceId}*`)  to a user, and have that user perform a no-op bulk update to all rules in the space. The rule will succeed on subsequent runs.
```

> Give appropriate index-level permissions for the entity store index and alias in the appropriate space (`.entities.v2.latest.security_${spaceId}*` and `entities-latest-${spaceId}*`)  to a user, and have that user perform a no-op bulk update to all rules in the space. The rule will succeed on subsequent runs.

Author: ```suggestion
Give appropriate `read` index-level permissions for the entity store index and alias in the appropriate space (`.entities.v2.latest.security_${spaceId}*` and `entities-latest-${spaceId}*`)  to a user, and have that user perform a no-op bulk update to all rules in the space. The rule will succeed on subsequent runs.
```

% :::

:::{dropdown} Detection Rule run failures due to failed Entity Analytics enrichment
**Applies to: 9.4.0**

**Impact**<br>

> Detection Engine rules use the rule author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment will fail, and the rule will report a failure status (though alerts still generate).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Detection Engine rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate).
```

> Detection Engine rules use the rule author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment will fail, and the rule will report a failure status (though alerts still generate).

Reviewer 3: Detection Engine rules -> Detection Rules

> When Detection Engine rules are created, the user that created that rule's permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When Detection Engine rules are created, the user that created that rule's permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key.
```

> When Detection Engine rules are created, the user that created that rule's permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key

Reviewer 3: Detection rules

Reviewer 3: -> rule author user's permissions?
Also the same for modifications.

> When a rule fires successfully, and an alert is generated as a result of that rule, Asset criticality and Entity Risk score values are enriched onto the alert document. In 9.4, these values are enriched from the entity store index .entities.v2.latest.security_* , which is a feature that is turned "on" by default in version 9.4 in the default space

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a rule fires successfully and generates an alert, Asset criticality and Entity Risk score values enrich the alert document. In 9.4, these values come from the entity store index `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` , which is turned "on" by default in the default space.
```

> After upgrading to v9.4, any rules created by users without access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index (i.e., the entity store) do not enrich their alerts with entity analytics data. This means that alerts which contain user or host entities and were created by users without access to the index show as failures. The alert document generates successfully, but without entity analytics data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

After you upgrade to v9.4, any rules created by users without access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index (i.e., the entity store) do not enrich their alerts with entity analytics data. This means that alerts which contain user or host entities and were created by users without access to the index show as failures. The alert document still generates, but without entity analytics data.

When a rule fires successfully and generates an alert, Asset criticality and Entity Risk score values enrich the alert document. In 9.4, these values come from the entity store index `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` , which is turned "on" by default in the default space.

Detection Engine rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. When Detection Engine rules are created, those permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate).

```

> After upgrading to this version, any rules who were created by users who do not have access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index (i.e., the entity store) will not be able to enrich the alert documents with entity analytics data. The major effect of this is that all alerts which contain user or host entities will begin to show failures for that rule. The alert document will be generated successfully, although the entity analytics data will not be enriched upon it, and it will show as a failure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After upgrading to v9.4, any rules created by users without access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index (i.e., the entity store) do not enrich their alerts with entity analytics data. This means that alerts which contain user or host entities and were created by users without access to the index show as failures. The alert document generates successfully, but without entity analytics data.
```

> After upgrading to this version, any rules who were created by users who do not have access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index (i.e., the entity store) will not be able to enrich the alert documents with entity analytics data. The major effect of this is that all alerts which contain user or host entities will begin to show failures for that rule. The alert document will be generated successfully, although the entity analytics data will not be enriched upon it, and it will show as a failure.

Reviewer 3: -> any rules that

**Workaround**<br>

> The workaround for this failure is to give appropriate index-level permissions for the entity store (`.entities.v2.latest.security_*`) to a rule author user, and have that user perform a no-op bulk update to all rules in the space. This will allow the rule to succeed in subsequent runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Give appropriate index-level permissions for the entity store index `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` to a user, and have that user perform a no-op bulk update to all rules in the space. The rule will to succeed on subsequent runs.
```

% :::

:::{dropdown} Detection Rule run failures due to failed Entity Analytics enrichment
**Applies to: 9.4.0**

**Impact**<br>

> After you upgrade to v9.4, any rules created by users without access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index (i.e., the entity store) do not enrich their alerts with entity analytics data. This means that alerts which contain user or host entities and were created by users without access to the index show as failures. The alert document still generates, but without entity analytics data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you upgrade to v9.4, any rules created by users without access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index (i.e., the entity store) do not enrich their alerts with entity analytics data. This means that alerts which contain user or host entities and were created from rules authored by users without access to the index show as failures. The alert document still generates, but without entity analytics data.
```

> After you upgrade to v9.4, any rules created by users without access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index (i.e., the entity store) do not enrich their alerts with entity analytics data. This means that alerts which contain user or host entities and were created from rules authored by users without access to the index show as failures. The alert document still generates, but without entity analytics data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you upgrade to v9.4, any Detection Rules created by users without access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index (i.e., the entity store) do not enrich their alerts with entity analytics data. This means that alerts which contain user or host entities and were created from rules authored by users without access to the index show as failures. The alert document still generates, but without entity analytics data.
```

> When a rule fires successfully and generates an alert, Asset criticality and Entity Risk score values enrich the alert document. In 9.4, these values come from the entity store index `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` , which is turned "on" by default in the default space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a rule fires successfully and generates an alert, Asset Criticality and Entity Risk score values enrich the alert document. In 9.4, these values come from the entity store index `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` , which is turned "on" by default in the default space.
```

> When a rule fires successfully and generates an alert, Asset Criticality and Entity Risk score values enrich the alert document. In 9.4, these values come from the entity store index `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` , which is turned "on" by default in the default space.

Author: ```suggestion
When a rule fires successfully and generates an alert, Asset Criticality and Entity Risk score values enrich the alert document. In 9.4, these values come from the entity store index `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` , which is a feature on by default in the default space.
```

> Detection rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. When they are created, those permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Detection rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. When rules are created, those permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate).
```

> Detection rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. When rules are created, those permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Detection rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. When rules are created or modified, those permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate).
```

> Detection rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. When rules are created or modified, those permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Detection Rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. When rules are created or modified, those permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate).
```

> Detection Engine rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. When Detection Engine rules are created, those permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Detection rules use their author’s permissions to enrich alerts with entity data. When they are created, those permissions are stored as a "snapshot" in an API key. If the author lacks access to the `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` index, enrichment fails and the rule reports a failure status (though alerts still generate).
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

**Workaround**<br>

> Give appropriate index-level permissions for the entity store index `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` to a user, and have that user perform a no-op bulk update to all rules in the space. The rule will to succeed on subsequent runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Give appropriate index-level permissions for the entity store index `.entities.v2.latest.security_*` to a user, and have that user perform a no-op bulk update to all rules in the space. The rule will succeed on subsequent runs.
```
